leaf/v/2.4.2/intro/htaccess.md, before:

# Configuring .htaccess

## 👩‍🏫 Explanation

Basically, we're trying to push all the requests made to the server to a single root file, so a request made to `/home.php` will be directed to the root file of our choice....usually `index.php`.

This complex sounding feature can be achieved by simply adding a `.htaccess` file to the root of our project directory.

## 📄 The HTACCESS file

This is a basic example of an htaccess file. It basically re-routes all requests to our index.php file.

```htaccess
RewriteEngine on
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule . index.php [L]
```

Save as `.htaccess` in your the same directory as your "root file"

<br>
<hr>

## Next steps

- [Your first leaf app](leaf/v/2.4.2/intro/first)
- [Routing](leaf/v/2.4.2/routing/)
- [Request](leaf/v/2.4.2/http/request)
- [Response](leaf/v/2.4.2/http/response)

<br>
Built with ❤ by <a href="https://mychi.netlify.com" style="font-size: 20px; color: #111;" target="_blank">Mychi Darko</a>

Commit message:

:memo: Updated leaf intro docs

leaf/v/2.4.2/intro/htaccess.md, after:

# URL rewriting

## 👩‍🏫 Explanation

Basically, we're trying to push all the requests made to the server to a single root file, so a request made to `/home.php` will be directed to the root file of our choice....usually `index.php`.

This complex sounding feature can be achieved by adding a web server configuration depending on your server of choice.

### Apache - .htaccess

This is a basic example of an htaccess file. It basically re-routes all requests to our index.php file.

```htaccess
RewriteEngine on
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
RewriteRule . index.php [L]
```

Save as `.htaccess` in your the same directory as your "root file"

### Nginx - nginx.conf

A basic example with nginx web server

```nginx
try_files $uri /index.php;
```

You can read below for an overview of url rewriting.

- [Intro to URL rewriting](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2011/11/introduction-to-url-rewriting/)
- [.htaccess and nginx.conf variations](https://gist.github.com/bramus/5332525)

<br>
<hr>

## Next steps

- [Your first leaf app](leaf/v/2.4.2/intro/first)
- [Routing](leaf/v/2.4.2/routing/)
- [Request](leaf/v/2.4.2/http/request)
- [Response](leaf/v/2.4.2/http/response)

<br>
Built with ❤ by <a href="https://mychi.netlify.com" style="font-size: 20px; color: #111;" target="_blank">Mychi Darko</a>
